---
layout : home
---

About System Administrator Tools

If you are a Unix system administrator who is taking care of multiple servers, you probably created some scripts to help you keeping your environment stable. With SADMIN you can be alerted when something goes wrong, when a script fail or just to let you know that your script ran with success. You can received these alerts via email, SMS or Slack application. SADMIN surely can help you, improve and standardize the administration of your server farm.

Some of the SADMIN Tools features ;

		
Status of all Scripts 	Servers Performance Graph 	See what IP are free to use


Using the Template Scripts (Shell and Python)

    Create your own script using the template script, modify it to your need and enjoy.
    Script generated logs (*.log):
        All your logs have a standardize name (${HOST}_${SCRIPT}.log)
        All logs have the same format (Header,Footer, Date/Time Stamp,...).
        They will be recorded in the same location ($SADMIN/log).
        View the logs from the Web Interface or from the command line.
        You control if you want to append or create a new log at each execution.
        Control whether you want or not a header and footer in the log.
        Decide the maximum of lines you want to keep in the log.
    Execution history will be recorded (*.rch file):
        Script execution date and time (Start and Ending) are recorded in the Result Code History file.
        Execution elapse time is calculated and included in the history file (*.rch).
        Script ending status is also recorded (Success, Running, Failed).
        If you wish you can decide to be alerted when the script end (Success or Failure).
        If the script is currently running, it will have a status of "Running".
        You can view your script history file on the Web Interface or from the command line.
        You control the maximum of lines you want to keep in the RCH file (SADM_MAX_RCLINE).
        If you don't want to use a history, you have to option to disable it (SADM_USE_RCH).

    With the "srch" command, you can even have a status of all your scripts that ran in your server farm.
    What happen when one your script fail, are you alerted/advised ?
    In the morning do you have to look in multiple place to check if everything went right last night ?
    Can you look at performance graph of your servers to see or to justify the cpu utilization increase ?
    In case of a disaster recovery situation, do you have all the information on hand to rebuild your servers ?
    When a filesystem/disk is getting full on one of your servers are you alerted ?
    If a service start working, can you restart automatically ?
    Include a frontend tool (sadm) to create/increase/delete filesystem (ext3,ext4,xfs)

If you like one these features, then you will certainly find a couple of more interesting things in SADMIN.


Web interface to ease your work

    Use it to add, update and delete server in your server farm inventory.
    View performance graph of your servers up to two years in the past.
    If you want, you can automatically update your server O/S at the time and day you scheduled.
    Have server configuration on hand, useful in case of a Disaster Recovery.
    View your servers farm subnet utilization and see what IP are free to use.
    View the status of all the scripts that run in your server farm.
    View the log (*.log) and/or history file (*.rch) without having to go on each server to see them.
    There's still a lot more to come.


SADMIN is working on most popular Linux distributions

    The SADMIN client have been tested to work on Redhat, Fedora, CentOS, Debian, Ubuntu, Raspbian and Aix.
    The SADMIN server should work on any Linux distribution but it's only supported on Redhat, CentOS, Fedora and Debian, Ubuntu and Raspbian distribution.
    In less than 10 minutes, you can install and start using the tools. I have been working for more than two years on these tools and I am happy to release the SADMIN project. I will continue to add and enhance the SADMIN tools over the years to come. There is much more to come, stay tuned.
    Impatient user may want to read the Quick start guide first.


Download

    You download the latest version of the SADMIN Project from our Download page. (972)
    You can clone the project from GitHub
    You can track the changes by viewing the Release Archive page.

You can leave suggestions, questions or problems to support@sadmin.ca. 
